Briefly write about your understanding of what your organisation does in society.  
This can be a tricky question, especially if you work for a large organisation, but try and describe their key business and core competencies.  
It sometimes helps to think about their business model - where their revenues, expenses and profits come from.  
You may need to do some research at work for this question.





Circle Interactive provides an integrated complete solution for clients looking for a streamlined and managed web presence. They Provide a complete package for organisations looking to customise their online services and manage how their users access their resources.

They provide an open source web based CRM(Content Resource Management) system for membership organisations, charities and public sector clients.
This includes: consultancy, design, support services, training, hosting/server maintenance and security audits.
Circle manages Membership Portals, E-commerce Sites, Company Intranets & “Back-office” CRM's where information related to improving, and retaining customers is stored in CiviCRM.

Circle Interactive's business model relies on providing software as a service, as it makes use of open source software it is focused on providing setup, maintenance and further customisation of the already existing system.
This allows organisation that do not have technical knowledge or cannot hire in-house developers to provide services to their clients. It focuses on providing an accessible platform, even for less technical clients, via a 'Client Manager' that acts as a go between developers and the client.
They collect information and formulate requirements, present results and gather feedback and relay this to the development team.

Another aspect of the organisations is to provide ongoing assistance, through the purchase of 'Support Bundles', allowing clients to rely on Circle Interactive as on-call support, this provides security and assurance of a quick resolution for critical aspects of the organisation.
For example payment processor integration which is vital, or perhaps breakdown of membership reporting and data gathering.




