Briefly describe the technology that you use within your organisation.   Describe software and hardware.


Circle Interactive's main technology platform is Drupal and CiviCRM.
Drupal, is an open source CMS (Content Management System) written in PHP used by 2.3% of websites worldwide. With a large open source community of more than 1,000,000 active contributors.
CiviCRM is an open source Constituent Relationship Management Software used by nonprofits and medium size organizations. It allows for Contact Management, Membership Management, Events and Contributions.

In the office we use ASUS/Apple laptops running Ubuntu, GNU/Linux is used for it's for having a CLI(Command Line Interface), Bash and for the ease of connecting to development, and producction enviorments which run GNU/Linux.
We employ version-control with Git and use the cloud repository Bitbucket for managing source code during development.
The organisations IDE of choice is Visual Studio Code, for it's ability to perform remote development via SSH.

For proccessing and storage of client communication, change requests and support tickets, Circle Interactive makes use of an inhouse developed intranet system.
Here all involved parties can communicate and enquire on the stages of development and status of the work.
A bot is also employed that links Git to the intranet via unique ID, and relays the development process to the client.

For workflows the company employs the agile methodology Kanban, with a tracking board on the main office wall. By separating work into manegable portions through the use of a burn-down chart and user stories.
This allows for higher visibility of employee responsabilities increases productivity and communication of team members.


^
USE



Circle Interactive is a leading CiviCRM specialist in the UK, and is a founding partner and supporting contributor
for CiviCRM.

The technology used within Circle Interactive primarily consists of the use of Drupal and CiviCRM.
Drupal, a leading content management system, is free, open-source software and has been developed by over a
million users in 230 countries. CiviCRM is also web-based open-source software that is used by a diverse range of
organisations, particularly not-for-profit organisations and has been developed by a community of contributors
and supporters.
Circle Interactive is a leading CiviCRM specialist in the UK, and is a founding partner and supporting contributor
for CiviCRM.
In office, we use laptops. This allows us to move from desk-to-desk dependant on who we are working with. If we
are working alone, we have “allocated” seats but may swap from day to day. Each workspace has an extra
monitor and supportive chairs, and the office is well ventilated. On our laptops, we use Ubuntu due to the ease
of upgrading, maintaining (by the System Administrators) and primarily the ability to use the terminal for
connecting to testing, staging and live servers.
Circle Interactive does not have a strict policy on what Integrated Development Environment (IDE) we have to
use, so for all of us it fluctuates. I use Microsoft Visual Studio Code as I believe it is a very efficient IDE and saves
me a lot of time when it comes to commits my changes to Git (a version control platform), checking the syntax of
my code, and much more.
1,000,000 
