policy vacuums, conceptual muddles (where it is not clear what correct course of action is)

these ethical codes of conduct can be written or codified by large bodies and adopted by smaller organisation.
An ethical code of conduct is a set of standards that defines the correct behaviours for people working in the industry.
It covers a wide variety of actions including:

- Public health, privacy, security and wellbeing of others and the enviorment.
- Discrimination based on the grounds of sex, sexual orientation, martial status, nationality, etc.

INSERT EXAMPLES FROM BCS PAPER HERE.

These issues have legal, social political and professional rammifications that are brought forwward by the introduction of modern
computing instruments, information systems and their impact on society.
It has also arrisen in a greater way since incidents such as the Cambridge Analytica scandal and AI Learning.

Computer ethics involves analysis of the nature and social impact of computer technology.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CODE OF CONDUCT FOR BCS MEMBERS

Codes of Conduct are professional standards that will be applied to qualified professionals 










------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LAUDON AND LAUDON
What is an ethical analysis?
it follows a 5 step process.

1.Identify and clearly describe the facts
Create and review the timeline of incidents to clear up errors in the initial reporting.
Ensure both parties contribute to the reconstruction of events

2.Define the conflict and identify higher order values
Define what ideals the parties are basing their descision on.
(freedom, privacy, protection of property, free enterprise).
Dilemas usually involve two diametrically opposed courses of action based on higher values.

3. Identify stakeholders
Who has desired outcomes in the issue, what can they gain from the outcome.

4. Identify the options you can reasonably take.
Sometimes it is nescesary to balance interests involved, therefore reaching a 'good' balance of consequences to
stakeholders.

5. Identify the potential consequences of your options.
Some options only work under certain scenarios, you have to re-evaluate your descisions at every stage.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

YOU AINT SEEN NOTHING YET

The computing revolution is divided into 3 stages:
1. Introduction stage: access to computers is scarce, highly user unfriendly but some developing standards
2. Permeation stage: Aquisition due to need for buisness, status symbol, included capacitation of experts in other fields to bring them up to date.
3. POWER STAGE: people are no longer learning the tools, they have reached the coalface and can now develop in their field, the decision of who will control the power that comes from technology has arrived.

With technology the power diferential between the havs and the have nots is so great, that great ethical issues wil unfold.

The increase in proffesional competence will increase the need for policies and codes of conduct.

Abounding cases for ethical problems in the foreseable future are inevitable.
Machines are logically maleable, with new algorithms and interpretations computers can do what we want them to be.
There exists a policy vacuum.
Policy exists to ensure that actions remain within ethical bounds.
Introduces the idea of conceptual muddles, as areas where policy has yet to delevop as the use of computerised systems is unorthodox and unexpected.

/** USELESS
Makes an example with computer monitoring.
Should children be tracked for safety reasons, criminals, maybe top secret employees?

Makes anecdotal reference to avatars in online games and how this might cause harrasment.
And asks how actions in a virtual world relate to the real world. Do they carry the same weight.
Compares Moores law of doubling in computing power as a reference to an increase in ethics issues.
**/


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ADDRESSING HARMFUL PARADIGMS

Competent computing professional should be able to do more than just creating the most efficient/elegant algoritm or software.

An example is given about a group of CS students who have optimized an algorithm that will compute a firing solution that uses managment-by-exception (which seems very unlikely and agaisnt the geneva convention).
Therefore since it is too efficient 'the blame is on the CS Students'.

XP proggramers were a dick to people who cannot read small text.
Man this writter is a little bitch.
Kindle example on small button size for kindle.

Computing has a broader resposability than a focus on information processes.
It shares a moral resposability as well as a task responsibility.

It is important to create products that do not harm people 


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


LIVING IN A DIGITAL WORLD

Digital devices are forming part of our life and our friendship.
Huge nunbers of people use mobile devices.
There is an increase in mobile device uses, as well as the side effects being studied.

There is reaserch into how people use technology and how long they are utilizing it.
Introduces a researcher which has coined the term of seductive digital immersion.
It allows for conection without the fear of intimacy.

People can interact with a lot of people while still keeping them at bay.
Circumstancial evidence of students being unable to perform sequential logic, and rational thinking.


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Design and Ethics in the era of big data


Research into urban computing, placing sensors at key locations to track people and reccomend amazon items.
This could allow for corporations and goverment creating profiles on people and track them.
Researcher is a moron. Though this would never happen 'too expensive'.

Provides a terrifying example of Maiden Square where the turkish goverment sent SMS messages to people attending goverment protests after setting up temporary honeypot cell towers.

Armed with this new knowledge, she now re-evaluates car trackers, fitness trackers, etc.
How information here can lead to easily identify individuals opinion, characteristics and behaviour.
Mentions how black boxes are an invasion of privacy.

Reuse and trading of personaly identifiably data is now a commodity, yet the people providing it are often unaware.

The world of sensors and always on data gathering.
It also talks about platform agnostic gathering devices, as well as user contributions that allow for goverments and large companies to assemble a 360 degree profile of individuals characteristics and behaviour.

This is mass market consumer surveilance.

Data as a commodity once collected can be stored indefinetly and can change owners many times.
Examples recently include british citizens whose health records were going to be sold to consultancies barely anonimised.
These had already been passed to a distribution centre.

The concept of back-end information exchange , or the data curtain veil that applies to your data.
Where is it stored?
Who has access?
Are there obious backdoors (even legal backdoors)?
Do the people holding it hold my principles about sharing?

There is a responsibility of interface developpers to improve the collection, processing and sharing personally identifiable data. They must create interafaces that make it easier to share information and that allow them to withold and and control it's spread.

It is also part of managers, engineers and legal staff job to omake consequential decisions about data managment.
The customer also plays an important role, since they are able to falsify or opt out of providing information to these buisnises, they have to take appropriate action to ensure the companies do not abuse gathering and storing.

Next they talk about predictive buying algorithms.
And how personally identifiable information can lead to companies knowing more than a customer is comfortable them knowing.

The example is of a pregnant woman buying vitamins, if the data is not anonymised the company can immediatly assume that any identifiable person making the
se purchases is pregnant, and the customer might not be okay with that.
This could lead to pregnancy related flyers or recomendations arriving at their parents house.
The designers aren't guilty, however the systems and mechanisms they created and the identifiable personal information they shared eliminate their complete innocence.

Since they are not solely responsible nor owners of the product, they can improve the interface to allow the user more control over how their information is stored and allowing them mechanisms to opt out.

They can also act as advocates for correct practices, even if they do not control the product.
The introduction of notice of data collection and process as well as impartial review would empower the customer.

They also recognise that often budgets and timelines do not allow for the kind of engagement and design that she is calling for in this paper and often the development of technology outpaces the regulation.

There is often a conflict of interest in the shareholders and the designers and often with the organisations and the public as to what the companies intentions are (such as PI gathering lots of data on their clients).
Limiting the amount of data gathered by companies might often affect the source of revenue they seek to protect and therefore they have a vested interest in not implementing these policies.

It is also important to guide the development of privacy oriented design after the explosion of mass surveilance after 9/11 and the patriot act.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



Computer Experts, Guns for hire or professionals

A push for socially responsoble computing expertise.
Mentions how professionals often subscribe to a gun for hire to the highest bidder without considering ethics as long as it is legal.

They want additional top down control over who can decide what a professional is or isn't seems like a vying for control. They want to self-regulate as long as they are regulators for others.

They are elitist saying that the best way to gauge skill in computing is education and certification that provide credentials, even though in computing it is not nescesary to have any of these if you are self learned and have experience.
These credentials give the accrediting body the power to decide who is 'profesional' and is in my mind undesirable.

How these experts handle their relationships to the organisations that hire them and to the public must be considered.

Computer experts often see themselvs as merely agents, shifting responsibility to their client, employer or superviser, their job being only to implement the job implemented by the higher ups.
They are esentially guns for hire.

However these computer experts descision on structure can have a massive effect on the enviorment and can facilitate/ constrain desired/undesired behavior and might lead to societal values in one form or another.

Computer experts have more agency than just a means to an end for the client.

1. Clients, employers and the public need higher expertise when making descisions related to the experts field.
They need help establishing goals and strategies not just implementation.

The experts can help the framing of key issues, that might escape the product owner due to their inexperience in the software realm.
Uses same example as going to a Doctor, the doctor assists you in the process of determining what course and options are available and we rely on them to explain the risks and benefits available for different approaches.

2. Another approach is to see computer experts as paternalitic since they are in the best position to understand needs and proper courses of action as well as benefits and risks.
Non experts must rely on them to act in their best interest, and should transfer some descision making power to the experts. Therefore experts must develop knowledge on the proper values interests and preferences to their descisions.

3. The 3rd approach is related to a sharing of responsabilities were descisions are made through interaction and iteration. In this model there is trust between the product owner and expert where the expert is trusted to make the right descision based on the trust that the client will provided all the relevant information for the expert to make an assestment.

They mention the trust that is nescesary when dealing with the public and other companies.


---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Who are we -- Now


Computing has become such an integral part of business and everyday life that the reliable operation of ever
advancing computing technologies is an enduring concern.

Talks about how practicing professionals often form bodies of members and form communities.
These practicioners render services to their client.

Makes allusions to how IT is a wide umbrella for a number of subsections and specialities within it.
These include cloud computing, network science, cyber security, etc.

Mentions the rise of certification and how employers are looking for these signals of quality cadidates.
It references the UK, Canada and others that are adopting governing bodies to regulate their qualified members.

After a 2002 dip in the amount of students registered for CS degrees the NSF have pushed to include computing in K12
to University and college.

The introduction of the new subsections and profesional governing bodies has introduced the need for codes
of ethics in training programs and education.

Even with these regulatory bodies, there still appears to be a lacking in terms of definitions in computing.
One researcher is concerned that there are not shared definitions for data, information or programming.

It is particularty difficult to define boundaries, since broad terms such as programming can apply to broader
and in many industries, such as goverment structuring where this researcher believes proggraming would be invaluable.


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


FIVE MORAL DIMENSIONS OF THE INFORMATION AGE


It is described as a large ripple in the pond that creates new ethical issues and that muddles previously much clearer issues.
With the blazing advance of technology social institutions cannot adapt quicly enough.
Etiquette, expectations and social responsability
It is described as having effect on five different moral dimensions:

1. Information Rights & Obligations:
What information do individuals and organisations posses with respect to information about themselvs?
Is there transparency on what is stored, how and for what purposes? What can they protect?
What obligations do these individuals/organisations have.


2. Property Rights & Obligations
How do traditional intellectual property rights hold up in a digital society, where tracing and account ownership and abuse are difficult and easy to ignore.

3. System Quality
What standards of data/systems are in place to protect individual rights and the safety of society.
What responsability exists to ensure these rights are protected.
What system requirements can be imposed to ensure individuals can be in control of their data.

4. Quality Of Life
What societal values are preserved in a digital society.
What institutions and social groups are protected?
What cultural values are supported by technology.

5. Accountabillity and Control
Relates to who can be held responsible for harm caused to individual and collective information and property rights.
Does this also include hiding/altering, or misleading people with this information.


Key technology trends that raise ethical issues

As computing power double -> More organisations depend on computer systems for critical operations -> Bigger change of harm in case of failures.

Rapidly declining storage costs -> Orgs can have detailed databases on people -> This raises privacy concerns and 
can lead to hyper-targeted advertisement.

Data analysis advances -> Companies can product detailed market research and predict customer buying behavior -> This produces concerns into companies shaping behavior and predatory marketing.

Networking advances and the internet -> copying data and accessing personal data from remote locations is easier -> Data leaks and peronal information are more vulnerable.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

==========================================================================================================

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHY ARE ETHICS IN BUISNESS, AND IN IT, IMPORTANT?


Ethics in Buisness and IT are important because:
- They provide a framework to computing professionals in relevant fields about correct courses of action when faced with issues of competing higher moralities, such as freedom over safety, or privacy over convenience.

- They sereve as a regulatory mechanism to ensure the conduct of individuals when interacting within their organisations, and when their actions can impact the public at large.

- They act as guiding principles towards working in industry.

They are important since they work to hold people accountable for not nescesary illegal actions, however if not questioned could lead to harm or inequality to members of the public.
For example when designing a proper algoritm professionals must ensure that the technology does not provide harmful outcomes by relying on data-driven policies that often do not take into account people privacy or are illegal?



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



Find out if there is an ethical code of conduct within your organisation.  

My organisation has an etical code around the work performed and a commitment from managment to ensure that customer data is treated in a way compliant beyond and above what the law requires.
As an open source company we also have strong statements about working with or using organisations that employ close source software and have caused organisational harm to it's employees or the public by carrying out anti-consumer practices, such as surveilance of users data and contents, algorithmic bias and targeted advertisement based on immutable characteristics and socio-economic status.
This also includes companies that have discriminatory hiring practices and who do not defend freedom of speech or of association and have performed censorship on their platform, as well as publishing and supporting misleading stories and information.

It also includes companies that perform anti-consumer practices such as denying individuals the ability to repair their own devices and restricting access to schematics and encouraging e-waste by artificially slowing down older models of their devices and including planned obsolescense at the hardware level beyond the warranty period.

It is important to the company that organisations and individuals are commited to the open source model of software development, we believe that cooperation without coerscion is the best way forward.

It is also aimed towards us employees, ensuring that we take nescesary steps to ensure care of our clients data, by not intentionally or by accident developping software that might grant unintentional malevorent third parties access to our client data. This is also included in our development strategy which includes ample time for code review to ensure no data leaks occur and 6 month audits of our client sites to ensure content access and permissions are not granted to foreign attackers.

Through all this our responsability to the public is to ensure correct handling of their data and transparency to allow them to know what we collect, why we collect and how they can opt out and ensure we no longer hold on to or sell their data.

This commitment is made to all our client and we ensure the highest level of security and scruttiny.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



The BCS code.


The challenging parts:

- Understanding and making judgement calls on what counts is ethical/ unethical,
staying on top of technological trends and making relevant training to understand the industry and new requirements.

- Ensuring understanding of the ever changing and complex legislation that you must be in compliance and awarness of when working in a profesional enviorment.

- Avoiding and noticing/understanding possible conflicts of interested for your work and colleagues

- It is also difficult to have an understanding of some of the vaguer points in the BCS such as the duty to uphold the reputation of the profession and not take action that might bring the profession into disrepuete.
It is not clear what the standards are and what activities might constitute disrepute, neither is the width, bredth of the issues.

- It can also be difficult to distinguish when information is being witheld or otherwise misinterpreted and when performance is being exaggerate or is otherwise correct.

- It can be challenging to be in complete compliance with all the points mentioned in this code as some items can go contrary to organisational goals and objectives.


The common sense:

- To treat all individuals equally regardless of sex, religion, socio economic status or level of experience and to ensure adequate working conditions alongside them.

- To ensure due regard for public safety and health, privacy and wellbeing of others.


Relevant to my workplace

- The duty to care for clients and the publics right to privacy and security of their information.
As well as compliance with and going beyond objectives set out in law that protect individuals data and opportunities to know how it is gathered and to be asked to stop.

- It is also relevant that all organisations are treated equally and with respect and that no discrimination occurs on the basis of: sex, religion or other conditions set by emploey



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------












